---
title: "Graded Interlocks for Iontronic Pressure Sensors with High Sensitivity and High Linearity over a Broad Range"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-03-02-ACSNano
excerpt: 'This work provides a strategy to make flexible pressure sensors that have combined performances of high sensitivity, high linearity, and wide pressure-response range.'
date: 2022-03-02
venue: 'ACS Nano'
# slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://faculty.sustech.edu.cn/wp-content/uploads/2018/12/2022081116280738.pdf'
citation: 'Bai, N., Wang, L., Xue, Y., Wang, Y., Hou, X., Li, G., ... & Guo, C. F. (2022). Graded interlocks for iontronic pressure sensors with high sensitivity and high linearity over a broad range. Acs Nano, 16(3), 4338-4347.'
---

Flexible pressure sensors that have high sensitivity, high linearity, and a wide pressure-response range are highly desired in applications of robotic sensation and human health monitoring. The challenge comes from the incompressibility of soft materials and the stiffening of microstructures in the device interfaces that lead to gradually saturated response. Therefore, the signal is nonlinear and pressure-response range is limited. Here, we show an iontronic flexible pressure sensor that can achieve high sensitivity (49.1 kPa–1), linear response (R2 > 0.995) over a broad pressure range (up to 485 kPa) enabled by graded interlocks of an array of hemispheres with fine pillars in the ionic layer. The high linearity comes from the fact that the pillar deformation can compensate for the effect of structural stiffening. The response-relaxation time of the sensor is <5 ms, allowing the device to detect vibration signals with frequencies up to 200 Hz. Our sensor has been used to recognize objects with different weights based on machine learning during the gripper grasping tasks. This work provides a strategy to make flexible pressure sensors that have combined performances of high sensitivity, high linearity, and wide pressure-response range.